So in this video I wanna walk
through the data transformation methods
which are listed in this category
because they transform the array list
into another type of data.
So we're gonna create a new work class
in our arrays project; array transformation.
This code demonstrates the different ways
of using Arrays.copyOf methods
which return a new array object.
And all the array copies are mutable.
So you can see that we're initially creating an array
of integer objects, we're initialising the values
using setAll on line 19.
We're creating a copy of the array,
same size using Arrays.copyOf on line 24 and 25.
We're creating a copy of an array
trimmed to a specified size on line 31.
We're copying the array to a larger array,
noting that extra elements get default values on line 34.
We're creating a copy of a defined portion of the array
on line 43.
And looking at the values after a change,
making that change on line 47.
So let's actually run this code.
We can see the value results showing using Arrays.copyOf.
Now I'm not going to cover spliterator
or stream methods at this time.
These won't be tested on this certification exam.
We've already talked about Arrays.asList
in our previous code sample,
so I'm not gonna be redundant and duplicate that here.
Moving on let's now review some of the list data
transformation methods.
So we need a new class here; list transformation.
And we're looking at subList,
the subList method in this example,
this creates a list from a smaller set of elements
in the list and to array we're also looking at,
which transforms the list to, unsurprisingly, an array.
So you can see, we're creating a new integer array, line 15,
setting the values, line 18.
Using List.of to create another list on line 23.
Then we get into using the sublist,
creating a sublist of a list on line 26.
Then we go from list to array
which you can see in the code on line 31.
So let's run this.
And there's the result.
Right.
Now I got some more code to paste in now,
so I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
Now there's a couple of imports we'll need to add.
We've got ListIterator there.
I'm just gonna get Intellij to add those for us,
but you'll need to add those, if you haven't already,
and Iterator as well.
And obviously that case, it's just added the two imports
on lines nine and eleven in my case.
Right, so looking at the actual code
that I've pasted in there,
firstly, on lines, say on line 38,
we're looking at using the Iterator
which allows forward processing only of list elements.
And you can see that we've got a for loop there,
that's effectively going through the values
using the .iterator method from the list,
another list in this case.
And then I've got a more complex example using listIterator
which allows backwards and forwards processing
of list elements.
We're doing a similar thing,
setting that up and using a for loop
to iterate through the list,
but we're doing a specific test there, staying on line 51,
and changing direction, going to the previous element,
just to show that you can go both backwards and forwards
if you're using the listIterator.
So if we run this now.
Mostly that should be confirmation, as you can see
that listIterator gives you a bit more power,
a bit more flexibility, more options, if you will,
for processing elements.
All right, so I'm gonna end the video here.
We've seen here that the java.lang.Arrays utility class
provides many of the methods you'd need
to manipulate data in an array.
And additionally, you can use some of the list methods,
to directly access your array,
if you use the Arrays.asList transformation method.
The alternative to the array is an ArrayList,
which is a collection of data that is resizeable
and implements the interfaces List and Collection,
to name a couple.
Now, we'll be discussing ArrayLists in more detail
in a later section in this course.
For now though, let's move on.
In the next video, we'll start talking
about two dimensional arrays in Java